[MUSIC]
In this video, we're gonna be using Unity
sprite editor to slice up our sprite
sheets into individual sprites.
Let's jump in and get started.
First things first,
let's set up a new project.
I've called mine TileVania.
Make sure you've clicked on 2D and
then Create project.
I've created mine already so
I'm just gonna pretend click.
And here we are in here.
I'm gonna start off by
just saving what I've got,
which will allow me to save my scene.
I'll save this scene as Sandbox, just so
we can be clear this is where we're just
mucking around and
seeing what happens in the sandbox.
Later on, we'll start getting
proper levels with level flow.
Now what we're gonna do is grab the assets
that I've attached to this lecture.
We've got a background brown tint and
a Rock_Grass_Water.
Grab those,
drag them into your Assets window.
So I've got those two in here.
And a quick note that
these are coming from
the Super Platformer Assets
asset pack on Unity.
My friend from Foxfin has said yes,
we can use these assets to be super clear.
We can use these with
a non commercial license.
So, you guys are welcome to do
what ever you want as you're
following along with the cause, playing
around with these, checking it out.
But, if you wish to publish
your game anywhere online,
then please make sure you go ahead and
buy these assets.
But for practice and for prototyping,
you can do what your heart desires.
Now, I have made some changes.
I've changed the color a little bit.
I've sliced these up
a little bit differently.
I've rearranged them to make them easier
for you to implement into your game and
also to make them a little bit easier for
us to see on screen as I'm recording,
as we're going through doing this.
So, they're the assets we're going to use.
If you'll only use your own assets,
then just follow along, and
make sure you've got a background and
you've got a full ground.
So in other words,
rocks to jump on as well as background
to place into behind the scene.
So in this video let's go ahead and
slice up these assets,
little bit of a rundown on how that works.
Click on the sprite itself.
And then you'll see in the inspector,
we've got some options here.
Make sure the texture type is on sprite,
2D and UI.
And the sprite mode,
we need to change to multiple.
Now, at this point,
I'm gonna leave the other elements but
we'll come back to those
in an upcoming video.
Scroll down and click on Apply.
And then click on sprite editor under the
button you see there within the inspector.
You can see we've got
these sprites laid out.
We've got 16, so there's 4 by 4.
And there's a couple of
ways to slice these up.
As it is, this is just one image.
This is one png and Unity doesn't yet
know that this bit up here is one sprite
and that bit there is another sprite.
So we click on Slice and we can allow
Unity to do this automatically.
And I think for
this we'll get some pretty good results.
You click Slice,
nothing seemed to have happened.
But if we click on our window, hold down
Ctrl, then you will see the outline and
these green outlines show
where these sprites are.
So it's actually mapped
it out really nicely.
If it doesn't work out as nicely as that,
as cleanly as that.
Then you can click on Slice, and instead
of automatic, go to grid by cell size.
And I know that these are 32 by 32.
If you go and grab the original
asset pack, they're 16 by 16.
But I've upsized these a bit to give us a
little more fidelity, so they're 32 by 32.
Pixel size.
And I know that there's a padding of 6x6.
The original had 3x3 but
I've doubled it, so this is 6x6.
So the padding basically means there's
transparency in between one sprite and
the next sprite.
So if I click Slice and hold down Ctrl,
you'll see this same result here.
One other thing I'll show you on
here is sometimes these sprite sheet
isn't nice and
clean in terms of these sprites being
touching right up at
the top corner up here.
If that's the case we can click on,
we can add an offset and
the offset the x and the y basically
is saying if the first sprite is below
the horizontal up here then we add
some X padding, X offsetting to that.
Or if it's over to the right,
we add a Y offset.
Now you can click on each of these.
You can see that it's been cut up nicely
and you see down here information of each
of it, it's given it a name starting at 0,
1, 2, 3 and so on.
So now we have, if we click Apply,
close out that window and
you go over to our spreadsheet here.
Click on that, and as it expands,
you can see all these different sprites
that are being created and
numbered from 0 down to 15.
So for the second spreadsheet I'll
issue that as a challenge to slice up
both of the sprite sheets so that we have
both background and foreground assets.
So, in other words,
go ahead if you don't follow me just now,
slice up that first background asset.
And then also slice up the other asset,
so that you have crisp
individual sprites that we can
be working with in future video.
So, pause the video and
slice your sprite sheets now.
Okay, I'll go through that, so that
you can see the process one more time.
Click on your Sprite Sheet, over here,
make sure the text you type is Sprite.
Click on multiple scroll down and
hit Apply.
And just a side note, often this thing
gets tucked down in there if you're
wondering, why has Rick got one of those?
But I don't,
it's just hidden down in there,
often happens with animations as well.
Well where's my animation gone?
It's just hiding down in there.
So we are going to click on Sprite Editor,
you can see our sprites
laid out nicely here.
Click on Slice, we'll try the automatic
again to see how that goes.
And holding down Ctrl, it helps if i
actually click on the Slice button here,
Slice, that looks like it worked
very nicely, 1, 2, 3 and so on.
Okay, we've got our sprites.
Click Apply.
There we go, simple as that.
We've got all of our sprites in that
sprite sheet which is going to represent
a lot of our platforms to jump on
whereas this is gonna represent a lot of
the background just here.
One last step in this process.
I'm going to create a new folder and
tidy things up.
This project's gonna be great.
We're gonna have lots of folders,
lots of scripts, lots of dependencies.
So right from the start we're gonna
get ourselves organized nicely.
So we'll call this Sprites, and Tiles.
Cuz I know that tiles
are coming down the pipe.
So we'll put these two into that folder.
Make sure that we save, so
it's all saved up nice and neatly.
Excellent, great work.
I'll see you in the next video.